>>> SATURDAY, DECEMBER 14, THE
PRESIDENT AND THE NATION
OBSERVED THE ONE-YEA
ANNIVERSARY OF THE MASSACRE IN
NEWTOWN.
WE'LL HAVE THE LATEST ON WHA
SCHOOLS ARE DOING TO PROTECT
STUDENTS
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT
HOW DRONES COULD SOON CHANGE
YOUR LIFE.
>> THIS IS DESIGNED TO CHASE
STORMS IN TORNADO ALLEY.
BUT IT COULD JUST AS EASIL
SEARCH FOR SOMEONE MISSING
RELAY COMMUNICATIONS IN AN
EMERGENCY.
>> AND NEW EFFORTS TO REMOVE
ANTIBIOTICS FROM THE MEAT YO
EAT.
CRITICS SAY THEY DON'T GO NEARLY
FAR ENOUGH
NEXT ON "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>> FROM THE STUDIOS IN LINCOL
CENTER, NEW YORK, THIS IS PB
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND
>> GOOD EVENING.
I'M JOHN LARSON.
HARI SREENIVASAN IS OFF.
>>> BELLS TOLLED IN NEWTOWN,
CONNECTICUT AS THE TOW
REMEMBERED AND HONORED THE 2
CHILDREN, SIX EDUCATORS AN
EMPLOYEES GUNNED DOWN ONE YEAR
AGO.
IN VIRGINIA PROTESTERS DEMANDING
NEW GUN CONTROL LAWS MARCHED
OUTSIDE THE HEADQUARTERS OF TH
NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION
PRESIDENT OBAMA LED THE NATION
IN MOURNING.
HE AND THE FIRST LADY LI
CANDLES AND OBSERVED A MOMENT OF
SILENCE TO MARK THE EVENT.
>>> IN A DENVER SUBURB TODAY
POLICE SEARCHED THE HOME OF KARL
PIERSON WHO SHOT AND CRITICALL
WOUNDED A 15-YEAR-OLD GIRL I
THEIR HIGH SCHOOL YESTERDAY AN
KILLED HIMSELF
AUTHORITIES FIRST VISITED TH
HOME LAST NIGHT.
POLICE BELIEVE THE GUNMAN WA
TARGETING A TEACHER WITH WHOM HE
HAD THE DISPUTE.
>>> THE NAVY MAY FIRST HAVE IT
FIRST FEMALE ADMIRAL
THE PRESIDENT'S NOMINATION O
MICHELLE HOWARD REQUIRES SENAT
APPROVAL
HOWARD HAS BEEN QUOTED AS SAYING
THE BEST AMBASSADOR IS A
WARSHIP, A GRADUATE OF THE NAVAL
ACADEMY AND SERVES A
DEPUTY CHIEF OF NAVA
OPERATIONS
WORD OF A NAVAL INCIDENT
INVOLVING THE UNITED STATES AN
CHINA, THE LATEST SIGN O
TENSION BETWEEN THE TW
COUNTRIES.
A SENIOR U.S. DEFENSE OFFICIAL
SAID TO DO A CHINESE SHIP HA
TAKEN WHAT HE CALLED
PARTICULARLY AGGRESSIVE ACTION
BY CUTTING ACROSS THE BOW OF A
AMERICAN MISSILE-CARRYIN
CRUISER.
THE DECEMBER 5th INCIDEN
REPORTEDLY OCCURRED IN
INTERNATIONAL WATERS IN TH
SOUTH CHINA SEA.
THE AMERICAN VESSEL HAD BEEN
MONITORING THE MAIDEN VOYAGE O
A NEW CHINESE AIRCRAFT CARRIER
ALL THIS AS THE U.S. AND ITS
ALLIES, JAPAN AND SOUTH KORE
HAVE RESISTED CHINA'S EFFORT T
IMPOSE AN AIR DEFENSE ZONE I
THE EAST CHINA SEA
CHINA IS REPORTING A MAJOR
ADVANCE IN ITS SPACE PROGRAM
CHINESE STATE MEDIA BROADCAS
PICTURES OF FLIGHT CONTROLLERS
CELEBRATING THE SUCCESSFUL LUNAR
LANDING OF A SCIENTIFIC PROBE.
IT TOOK 12 DAYS TO MAKE TH
240,000 MILE JOURNEY
THIS IS AN ANIMATION DEPICTING
THE SPACECRAFT'S 12-MINUTE
DESCENT ONTO A RELATIVELY FLAT
PART OF THE MOON
>>> IRAN IS ALSO STEPPING UP ITS
SPACE PROGRAM.
IRAN STATE TV TODAY BROADCAS
PICTURES OF A ROCKET BLASTIN
OFF CARRYING A MONKEY INTO
SPACE.
IRAN SAYS THE SIX-POUND ANIMAL
WAS RECOVERED SAFELY AFTER THE
CAPSULE CARRYING IT SEPARATE
FROM THE ROCKET AND PARACHUTED
SAFELY TO EARTH.
IRAN FIRST LAUNCHED A MONKEY
INTO SPACE LAST JANUARY.
>>> IN SOUTH AFRICA TODAY AFTE
THREE DAYS OF MOURNING NELSO
MANDELA'S BODY WAS MOVED BY
GOVERNMENT BUILDING AND ESCORTED
BY FIGHTER JETS TO HIS ANCESTRAL
HOME
A STATE FUNERAL WILL BE HELD
THERE TOMORROW
REMEMBER THE SOUTH AFRICAN MAN
WHO GOT WITHIN A FEW FEET OF
PRESIDENT OBAMA BY POSING AS A
SIGN LANGUAGE INTERPRETER AT A
MEMORIAL SERVICE FOR MANDELA
NEWLY DISCOVERED COURT RECORDS
SHOW THE MAN HAD BEEN ACCUSED OF
ATTEMPTED MURDER AND MURDE
DURING THE PAST 20 YEARS
CHARGES WERE EVIDENTLY DROPPED
BECAUSE HE WAS DEEMED UNFIT TO
STAND TRIAL.
>>> NOW BACK TO SCHOOL SAFETY.
IN THE YEAR SINCE TH
NEWTOWN MASSACRE THE NATIONA
FOCUS HAS BEEN ON GUN LAWS AND
MENTAL HEALTH PROGRAMS, BU
LARGELY OUT OF SIGHT, THOUSAND
OF SCHOOLS HAVE IMPLEMENTE
CHANGES THEY HOPE WILL KEE
THEIR STUDENTS SAFE.
FOR MORE ABOUT THIS, WE AR
JOINED NOW FROM PHOENIX BY KEVIN
QUINN, HE'S THE PRESIDENT OF THE
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SCHOOL
RESOURCE OFFICERS, A NON-PROFI
WHOSE MISSION IT IS TO MAK
SCHOOLS SAFE
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR JOININ
US
RESOURCE OFFICERS ARE I'M SURE
MORE THAN A POLICEMAN WITH A GUN
STANDING AT THE FRONT DOOR
WHAT EXACTLY ARE THEY?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
SCHOOL RESOURCE OFFICERS ARE
PROPERLY TRAINED POLICE OFFICERS
FROM THE LOCAL JURISDICTION.
THEY'RE ASSIGNED TO A SCHOOL O
A FULL-TIME BASIS.
AGAIN, LIKE YOU SAID, THEY'R
MORE THAN JUST LET'S JUST PUT AN
OFFICER WITH A GUN STANDING AT
THE FRONT DOOR WAITING FOR
SOMETHING BAD TO HAPPEN.
THESE OFFICERS ARE COMPLETELY
UNDERSTAND GREATED INTO TH
SCHOOL AND INTO THE SCHOOL
SYSTEM AS PART OF THE FACULT
AND PART OF THE ADMINISTRATION
TEAM
>> WERE THERE RESOURCE OFFICER
IN NEWTOWN
>> THEY HAD AN OFFICER ASSIGNE
TO THE JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL AN
ONE ASSIGNED TO THE HIGH SCHOOL.
>> BUT NOT AT THE ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL
>> NO, SIR
>> PUTTING OFFICERS IN A LOT O
THESE SCHOOLS OBVIOUSLY VERY
VERY EXPENSIVE
TO WHAT EXTENT HAS THE TIGHTENIN
OF BUDGETS, ESPECIALLY AT TH
STATE LEVEL IMPEDED SOME O
THESE CHANGES?
>> I'M SURE RIGHT NOW WITH SANDY
HOOK ONLY BEING ONE YEAR AGO
SOME OF THE BUDGETS HAVEN'
QUITE CAUGHT UP TO THE NEEDS AND
THE NECESSITIES OF SCHOO
SAFETY
I DO KNOW THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
JUST RELEASED A GRANT FOR ABOU
300, A LITTLE OVER 300 NEW
SCHOOL RESOURCE OFFICERS ACROS
THE COUNTRY.
THAT GRANT AUZ AWARDED BACK IN
OCTOBER.
>> ANY EVIDENCE SO FAR THEY'VE
BEEN ABLE TO INTERRUPT A SCHOO
SHOOTER COMING IN?
>> THERE HASN'T REALLY BEEN
LOT OF SCHOOL SHOOTINGS THAT
HAVE OCCURRED ON CAMPUSES WHER
THERE IS A SCHOOL RESOURCE
OFFICER, PER SE.
IF YOU THINK ABOUT IT, WHEN YO
HAVE A POLICE CAR SITTING OUT IN
SCHOOL AND A POLICE OFFICER ON
THE CAMPUS, ANY KIND OF OUTSID
INTRUDER, THEY MAY NOT PICK THAT
SCHOOL TO GO ON, TO GO ON CAMPUS
AND CARRY OUT THE ATTACK
>> IN THE YEAR SINCE NEWTOWN
WHAT TYPE OF CHANGES HAV
SCHOOLS BEEN MAKE?
>> IN THE LAST YEAR WE'VE SEEN A
LOT OF SCHOOLS STARTING TO TAK
A STEP BACK AND LOOK AT THEI
CRISIS PLANS, LOOK AT THEI
EMERGENCY PLANS, LOOK AT
SCHOOL -- THE PHYSICAL SCHOO
SECURITY AS WELL, PUTTING INTO
EFFECT THE PLANNING, THE DRILLS,
THE PRACTICES AND THINGS LIK
THAT
>> IN ADDITION TO THE DRILLS AND
THE PLANNING, WE'RE HEARIN
ABOUT SOME NEW TECHNOLOGIE
BEING INVOLVED
CAN YOU TELL US A LITTLE MOR
ABOUT THAT
>> THERE'S A LOT OF TECHNOLOGY
OUT THERE NOW, EVERYTHING FROM
AUTOMATIC LOCKING DOORS TO FILMS
THAT WE'VE HEARD ABOUT, YOU PU
A FILM OVER WINDOWS THAT ENABLES
THE GLASS NOT TO BREAK A
EASILY, TO BULLETPROOF BACKPACKS
AND ARMORED BUNKERS THAT YOU
INSTALL INSIDE SCHOOL BUILDINGS.
>> I'VE READ ABOUT THE BUNKERS
AND BULLETPROOF BAN PACKS, ARE
THESE BEING PUT INTO PLACE
>> I HAVEN'T HEARD OF AN
SCHOOLS THAT HAVE GONE THROUGH
IT YET
I'VE SEEN A LOT OF THE MARKETING
OUT THERE.
I DON'T KNOW AS FAR AS THE COS
IS CONCERNED, IF THAT'S GOING TO
BE AN OBSTACLE IN DOING THIS
>> KEVIN QUINN JOINING U
TONIGHT FROM PHOENIX, THANKS
VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU, SIR.
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
YOU MAY HAVE SEEN THAT STORY O
60 MINUTES RECENTLY ABOUT HO
AMAZON SOME DAY MIGHT USE DRONES
TO DELIVER PACKAGES TO YOU
HOME
BUT THAT ONLY SCRATCHES TH
SURFACE ABOUT HOW GOVERNMENT
AND BUSINESSES COULD UTILIZE
THESE PILOTLESS FLYING OBJECTS
IN THIS COUNTRY.
SOME BELIEVE IT'S A POTENTIA
BONANZA.
BUT THE PROSPECT OF TENS O
THOUSANDS OF DRONES IN THE SKY
IN THE NOT-VERY-DISTANT FUTURE
HAS RAISED BOTH SAFETY AND
PRIVACY CONCERNS
RICK CARR REPORTS FROM COLORADO.
>> Reporter: THE FUTURE OF
AVIATION COULD BE AN AIRCRAF
LIGHT ENOUGH TO BE CARRIED BY
GRAD STUDENT, RUGGED ENOUGH TO
TAKE OFF FROM A GRASSY FIELD AND
FLEXIBLE ENOUGH TO DO JUST ABOUT
ANYTHING IN THE AIR.
NOT FIRING MISSILES, THIS ONE IS
DESIGNED TO CHANGE STORMS IN
TORNADO ALLEY, BUT IT COULD JUST
AS EASILY SEARCH FOR SOMEONE WHO
IS MISSING, RELAY COMMUNICATIONS
IN AN EMERGENCY, MONITOR A
PIPELINE FOR LEAKS, MAYBE EVEN
DELIVER PACKAGES
>> YOU WANT TO DO THIS MISSION
PUT IN THIS SET OF SENSORS
YOU WANT TO DO THIS NEXT
MISSION, YOU PUT IN OTHE
SENSORS AND SO FORTH
>> Reporter: PUT THE RIGHT
EQUIPMENT ON BOARD AND DRONE
COULD BE USEFUL TO LOTS OF
DIFFERENT INDUSTRIES AND
GOVERNMENT SECTORS
SO USEFUL THAT SALES OF TH
PILOTLESS AIRCRAFT MIGHT JUS
TAKE OFF
WITHIN A COUPLE HOURS' DRIVE O
THIS FIELD NEAR BOULDER,
COLORADO STARTUPS AN
ESTABLISHED EVE ASIAN COMPANIE
ARE MEETING UP TO MEET THE
DEMAND
IT'S PART OF A STATE-SIDE EFFORT
TO CONVINCE THE FEDERAL AVIATION
ADMINISTRATION TO TO PUT ONE O
THE TESTING SITES IT'S ANNOUNCED
IN COLORADO.
IF THE STATE HAS AN EDGE OVE
THE 23 OTHERS IN THE RUNNING, IT
MAY BE THIS MAN, PROFESSOR O
AEROSPACE ENGINEERING AT
UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO BOURDER
>> THE IDEA THAT YOU'RE GOING TO
SIT AT A CONSOLE WITH A JO
STICK IN YOUR HAND, WITH A VIDEO
COMING FROM CAMERAS ON THE
AIRCRAFT AND FLYING THAT AROUND,
NO
THAT'S TECHNOLOGY FROM THE '80
AND '90s
THIS IS A NEW SENTRY AND
AUTONOMY, THAT WILL BE THE
FUTURE
>> Reporter: ESSENTIALLY WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT A FLYING ROBOT
RIGHT?
>> IT'S ALREADY A FLYING ROBOT
>> RIGHT NOW IT'S FLYING WIT
THE COMPUTER REIGNS, NOT BY ME
>> Reporter: PEOPLE WHO BUIL
THESE FLYING ROBOTS WOULD PREFER
THE PUBLIC AND REPORT EVERS NO
CALL THEM DRONES
ONE OF THE TONES THEY PREFER I
UAS, UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS
AND THE UNMANNED PART IS ANOTHER
BIG SELLING POINT.
>> THE UAS DOESN'T CARE IF THE
PILOT IS TIRED
IT WILL SIT THERE UNTIL YOU TELL
IT TO COME HOME OR IT RUNS LOW
ON FUEL.
>> Reporter: MOST USE LESS FUE
THAN MANNED AIRCRAFT
BOTTOM LINE, THEY'RE CHEAPER T
FLY.
SO MUCH CHEAPER THAT BUSINESSE
THAT CAN ONLY DREAM ABOUT USIN
MANNED AIRCRAFT TODAY COULD EN
UP FLYING THEIR VERY OWN DRONES.
FOR EXAMPLE, ARCHITECT AND REA
ESTATE DEVELOPERS MIGHT WANT
THEM TO FLY OVER BUILDINGS I
THE SURROUNDING NEIGHBORHOODS IN
ORDER TO SCAN THEM TO BUILD 3D
MODELS
ARGRO THINKS U.S.'S KILLER APP
WILL BE AGRICULTURE.
THE FOUNDER IN A DENVER SUBURB
IS BETTING ON THAT
>> I THINK IT'S GOING TO BE
WINDFALL OF OPERATION.
>> Reporter: ALAN BISHOP'S FIRM,
REFERENCE TECHNOLOGIES BUILD
DRONES THAT TAKE OFF AND LAN
LIKE HELICOPTERS
HE THINK THINKS THEY'LL BE A
COMMON ON FARM AS PICKUP TRUCKS.
>> CORN, WHEAT
HISTORICALLY THEY WOULD CALL U
THE LOCAL SPRAYER AND HE'L
SPRAY THE ENTIRE FIELD
WITH THIS TECHNOLOGY, YOU SEND
THIS UNIT OUT AND IT CAN
DETERMINE THE SEGMENT OF THE
FIELD THAT'S INFESTED AND THAT'S
THE ONLY PART THAT NEEDS TO BE
SPRAYED.
>> Reporter: THAT WOULD SAVE
MONEY FOR FARMERS AND COULD MEAN
LESS RESIDUE FROM CHEMICALS THAT
TREAT AGRICULTURAL DISEASES ON
THE DINNER TABLE
SOME OF THE DRONES LOOK LIKE THE
COPTERS YOU MIGHT SEE HOBBYIST
PILOTING BY REMOTE
BUT THESE PILOT THEMSELVES
>> OUR BIG UNIT CAN TAKE OFF
FROM THIS PARKING LOT AND LAND
ON THE PITCHER'S MOUND IN COOR
FIELD WITH HANDS OFF
>> WOW
YOU JUST PROGRAM THE GPS
>> YOU USE THE GPS MAPS AND GO
CLICK, CLICK, CLICK.
YOU LOOK FOR ANY OBSTRUCTION
ALONG THE WAY, AND ABOUT 3
MINUTES LATER IT SHOWS UP AT
COORS FIELD LANDING ON THE
PITCHER'S MOUND.
>> HOPEFULLY NOT DURING A GAME
>> FOR SURE.
>> Reporter: THAT MODEL CAN STAY
IN THE AIR FOR FIVE HOURS WITH
20 POUNDS OF EQUIPMENT ON BOARD.
RIGHT NOW THERE ARE OVER 500
DRONES FLYING IN THE U.S
FIVE YEARS FROM NOW THE FEDERA
AVIATION ADMINISTRATION PREDICTS
ABOUT 7500
BY 2025 AN INDUSTRY GROU
EXPECTS TENS OF THOUSANDS.
BISHOP IS EVEN MORE OPTIMISTIC
HOW MANY DRONES DO YOU THINK
WILL BE COMMERCIALLY IN THE AI
IN THE UNITED STATES IN, SAY
TEN YEARS?
>> IN TEN YEARS, 100,000 PLUS,
EASILY
>> Reporter: BUT RIGHT NOW FAA
RULES MAKE IT NEXT TO IMPOSSIBLE
FOR FARMERS, CORPORATIONS,
PRETTY MUCH ANY PART OF TH
PRIVATE SECTOR TO GET TH
PERMITS THAT ARE NECESSARY T
FLY THEM
EVEN BISHOP DOES HAVEN'T A
PERMIT, SO HE DOESN'T FLY HI
DRONES TO A BASEBALL STADIUM O
ANYPLACE ELSE UNLESS THEY'RE
TETHERED TO THE GROUND WIT
FISHING LINE
IF THE FAA WERE TO MAKE IT
EASIER FOR THE PRIVATE SECTOR TO
BUY AND FLY UAS'S, A TRADE GROUP
ESTIMATES COLORADO'S INDUSTR
WOULD DO $20 MILLION IN TH
FIRST YEAR ALONE, THEN GRO
EXPONENTIALLY.
EFFORTS TO BOOST THE INDUSTR
HAVE BEEN FLYING INTO A STIF
HEADWIND
WITH THOUSANDS OF THESE BIRDS IN
THE AIR THERE ARE CONCERNS
FIRST, THAT THESE MIGHT RUN INTO
CONFLICT WITH EXISTING MANNE
AIRCRAFT
SECONDLY, A LOT OF THESE BIRDS
IN THE AIR ARE ALSO EYES IN TH
SKY.
>> WHEN YOU FIRST LEARNED THAT
COLORADO IS PUSHING TO BECOME
TESTING SITE FOR DRONES, WHA
WAS YOUR FIRST REACTION?
>> WELL, IN SOME WAYS IT WAS
WHOA, WAIT A MINUTE.
WE DON'T HAVE IN MY MIND WHA
THE PRIVACY RULES SHOULD BE IN
PLACE BEFORE WE TALK ABOUT ANY
SORT OF ESCALATION IN PUTTIN
THE DRONES UP IN THE AIR
WE HAVEN'T LAID THE APPROPRIAT
GROUNDWORK FOR THEM.
>> Reporter: DENISE MAYS IS WITH
THE ACLU IN COLORADO
SHE SAYS THERE'S LEGITIMAT
REASONS TO USE THE DRONES, LIK
SEARCH AND RESCUE OPERATIONS
SHE WORRIES THOSE SAME EYES IN
THE SKIES WILL END UP BEING USED
FOR WHAT SHE THINKS ARE LESS
THAN LEGITIMATE PURPOSES
>> IF YOU HAVE A DRONE THAT'
BEING LAUNCHED FOR THE PURPOSE
OF FINDING A HOT SPOT IN A FIR
AND EN ROUTE IT GATHERS PRIVAT
INFORMATION ABOUT PRIVAT
CITIZENS ON THEIR PRIVAT
PROPERTY AND RETAINS THAT DATA
AND LATER WANTS TO USE IT IN A
CRIMINAL PROCEEDING, THAT'S TH
PROBLEM.
>> Reporter: IT SOUNDS LIKE THIS
IS ONE OF THOSE SLIPPERY SLOPE
ARGUMENTS IN A WAY
ONCE YOU PUT DRONES IN THE HANDS
OF LAW ENFORCEMENT, THEY'R
GOING TO KEEP EXPANDING THE WA
THEY USE THEM.
>> THAT'S CERTAINLY WHAT W
FEAR
I THINK THE RUSH TO GET TH
PERMITS, GET THE TECHNOLOG
GOING, LAUNCH THEM, WE'LL WORR
ABOUT REPERCUSSIONS LATER.
WE'LL FIX THEM AS THEY COME UP
IS NOT GOOD POLICY MAKING.
>> Reporter: THE AIRLINE PILOT
ASSOCIATION ALSO WANTS DRONES TO
REMAIN GROUNDED WHILE REGULATO
DEVELOP RULES FOR THEM
THE UNION WANTS THE FEDERA
AVIATION ADMINISTRATION TO MAK
SURE UAS'S DON'T COMPROMISE TH
SAFETY OF NEARLY A QUARTER
MILLION MANNED AIRCRAFT IN THE
COUNTRY.
>> I THINK THE WAY THEY'LL D
THIS EFFECTIVELY IS TO DO IT
VERY METHODICALLY, NOT T
SUDDENLY COMPLETELY CLOBBER TH
INTEGRATED AIR SPACE WITH AN
ABUNDANCE OF UA.
>> THE UNION WANTS EVERY
AIRCRAFT TO HAVE A HUMAN BEING
AT A SET OF CONTROLS EVERY TIM
ONE TAKES TO THE SKIES, EVEN I
IT'S CAPABLE OF FLYING ITSELF.
>> SOMEBODY PHYSICALLY ON TH
AIRPLANE OR PHYSICALLY ON TH
GROUND HAS TO HAVE A
UNDERSTANDING OF THE PERFORMANCE
CHARACTERISTICS OF THIS VESSEL
THEY HAVE TO UNDERSTAND WHAT THE
CONSEQUENCES ARE IF THEY MISUS
IT
YOU JUST CAN'T WALK IN OFF THE
STREET JUST LIKE SOME KID FLYING
A GAME MACHINE SOMEWHERE -
>> CASSIDY SAYS THE GOOD NEWS IS
THE FAA'S PLAN FOR BRINGIN
DRONES TINT NATION'S AIR SPACE
PROPOSES SOME KIND OF PILO
CERTIFICATION.
IT ALSO REQUIRES HIGH-TECH
SAFETY SYSTEMS FOR DRONES THAT
CAN SENSE AND AVOID COLLISIONS
KEEP THE RADIO LINK WITH THE
CONTROL STATION SECURE FRO
MALICIOUS HACKERS OR TERRORIST
AND MORE
BUT THE BAD NEWS, HE SAYS, I
CONGRESS ORDERED THE FAA TO LE
MORE DRONES START FLYING B
SEPTEMBER OF 2015.
HE THINKS THAT MAY BE TOO SOON
>> WHAT'S A REASONABLE TIMELIN
FOR THIS
>> I THINK REASONABLE TIMELINE
IS THE ONE THAT'S THE SAFE
TIMELINE
I DON'T THINK THE TACTICAL AND
SAFETY WORK THAT'S REQUIRED IS
GOING TO BE ACCOMPLISHED B
THEN
>> WE HAVE TO BE COMPLIANT WIT
THE FAA'S RULES AND REGULATIONS.
>> COLORADO DRONE ENTREPRENEUR
ALAN BISHOP SAYS HE'
SYMPATHETIC BECAUSE HE'S A
PRIVATE PILOT.
HE SAYS THERE ARE ALREAD
DEVICES THAT THE INVADE TH
PUBLIC'S PRIVACY
>> WE HAVE INITIAL NEGATIV
THINGS ABOUT THINGS WE DON'T
UNDERSTAND OR WE FEEL WE CAN'T
CONTROL.
AND DRONES OR UASs CLEARLY FAL
INTO THAT CATEGORY
THEY'RE HIGH-TECH DEVICES.
THEY HAVE EXTRAORDINAR
CAPABILITIES
THEY FLY
>> MORE THAN ANYTHING, ALA
BISHOP JUST WANTS TO BE ALLOWE
TO LET HIS DRONES OFF THEI
LEASHES SO THEY CAN PROVE TO
EVERYONE THEY'RE AS USEFUL AS HE
THINKS THEY'LL TURN OUT TO BE.
AEROSPACE ENGINEERING PROFESSO
BRIAN ARGRO CAN ALREADY DO THAT.
THE RULES DON'T APPLY TO
RESEARCHERS AT STATE
UNIVERSITIES, SO HIS TEAM HA
BEEN FLYING THEM FOR YEARS
HE UNDERSTANDS THE FRUSTRATION
WITH THE SLOW PROCESS IN GETTING
THEM OFF THE GROUND.
BUT DRONES PRESENT COMPLEX
PROBLEMS
HE'S NOT SURE HE'D ADVIS
REGULATORS AT THE FAA TO MOV
FASTER
>> WHAT'S THE ALTERNATIVE?
>> A FREE-FOR-ALL, YOU START
BRINGING DOWN MANNED AIRCRAFT.
>> Reporter: HE SEES DRONES AS A
BIG PART OF THE FUTURE O
AVIATION, MAYBE AS MUCH AS JEF
BEES SOES IS PREDICTING.
HE THINKS IT WILL TAKE LONGE
BEFORE THEY'RE CLEARED FOR
TAKEOFF.
>>> FROM FIREFIGHTING TO
ORANGUTAN TRACKING
EXPLORE THE WORLD THAT DRONE
COULD SOON EXPLORE, VISI
NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG
>>> A POTENTIALLY IMPORTAN
STORY THAT GOT A LITTL
ATTENTION THIS WEEK WAS
PROPOSAL BY THE FOOD AND DRUG 5D
REGISTRATION TO LIMIT THE USE OF
ANTI BUY OTICS IN FARM ANIMALS
HEALTH OFFICIALS WORRY THA
OVERUSE OF THESE DRUGS MAKES U
MORE VULNERABLE TO INFECTIOU
DISEASES
FOR MORE ABOUT THE FDA'S
PROPOSAL AND THE LIKELIHOOD IT
WILL BE IMPLEMENTED, WE'RE
JOINED NOW FROM WASHINGTON B
SABRINA TAVERNISI OF "THE NE
YORK TIMES" WHO HAS WRITTE
EXTENSIVELY ABOUT THE TOPIC.
THANKS SO MUCH FOR JOINING US.
WHAT ARE THESE NEW RULES
>> THE RULES ESSENTIALLY LAY OUT
CHANGES THAT THE PHARMACEUTICA
INDUSTRY NEEDS TO MAKE TO TH
LABELS OF DRUGS THEY MAKE FO
FARM ANIMALS, ANTIBIOTIC
DRUGS.
ESSENTIALLY ONCE THE CHANGES ARE
MADE, THAT WILL MEAN THAT TH
FARMERS AND RANCHERS AND THE
AGRICULTURAL BUSINESSES WILL N
LONGER BE ALLOWED TO USE AND BUY
OTICS IN FEED AND WATER FO
GROWTH PROMOTION PURPOSES.
IN OTHER WORDS, TO MAKE TH
ANIMALS GROW FASTER AND BE
PLUMPER.
>> WE KNOW THESE PROPOSALS
THESE RULES ARE ALREADY COMING
UNDER SOME CRITICISM
WHY IS THAT?
>> ESSENTIALLY THERE'S A GREAT
DEAL OF SKEPTICISM IN PUBLIC
HEALTH COMMUNITY
UNDERSTANDABLY, THAT THE
AGRICULTURAL BUSINESSES AR
GOING TO USE A LOOPHOLE TO
ESSENTIALLY ALLOW THEM T
CONTINUE USING THE SAME LO
DOSES OF ANTIBIOTICS OVER TH
COURSE OF THE LIFETIME OF TH
ANIMAL AND JUST SAY, FOR
EXAMPLE, THEY NEEDED TO USE IT
FOR DISEASE PREVENTION PURPOSE
OR FOR GROWTH PROMOTIO
PURPOSES, IN OTHER WORDS, TO
KEEP THE ANIMALS FROM GETTIN
SICK
>> YOUR SENSE IS, HOWEVER,
THEY'RE GOING TO BE MORE THA
WHY DON'T YOU TRUST US TO DO THE
RIGHT THING TYPE OF REGULATION
YOU FEEL LIKE THERE ARE SOME
MORE TEETH TO IT
>> I THINK SO.
THE SKEPTICISM ON THE PART O
THE PUBLIC HEALTH PEOPLE I
UNDERSTANDABLE
IT'S BEEN YEARS, DECADES, EVEN
WITH VERY LITTLE ACTION ON THI
PROBLEM.
WE'VE GOTTEN TO THE POINT IN
HUMAN HEALTH WHERE INFECTIOU
DISEASE DOCTORS AN
PEDIATRICIANS ARE JUST EXTREMELY
WORRIED ABOUT THIS
BUT, YOU KNOW, ESSENTIALLY THE
FDA'S RESPONSE IS, WELL, THERE
ARE GOING TO HAVE TO B
PRESCRIPTIONS FROM
VETERINARIANS.
SO IT WON'T JUST BE LIKE IT IS
NOW WHERE FARMERS AND RANCHERS
CAN SIMPLY GO TO A FEED STOR
AND BUY AS MUCH OF THIS STUFF AS
THEY LIKE.
FOR HUMAN HEALTH, WE HAVE TO GET
PRESCRIPTIONS FOR ANTIBIOTIC
BUT THAT IS NOT THE CASE FOR
FARMS AND FARM ANIMALS
>> SABRINA, YOU HAD WRITTEN IN
SOME OF YOUR ARTICLES THAT THE
CDC HAS SOME ALARMING NE
NUMBERS ON THIS.
>> YES, THE CDC SAYS 2 MILLION
AMERICANS GET SICK FROM THES
ANTI-RESISTANT BUGS.
>> HOW IS THE ROLLOUT GOING TO
PROCEED?
>> THE FDA IS TAKING THE
TEMPERATURE OF THE
PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANIES, GIVING
THEM THREE MONTHS TO TELL TH
AGENCY WHETHER THEY WILL B
PARTICIPATING AND THEN IT WILL
BE -- THEY WILL HAVE ACTUALL
THREE YEARS TO MAKE THE CHANGES.
>> SABRINA TAVERNISI JOINING U
FROM WASHINGTON, D.C., THANK YOU
SO MUCH.
>> THANKS A LOT.
>>> THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND
SATURDAY
>>> FINALLY TONIGHT, MORE ABOU
THE ASSAULT ON WILDLIFE IN
AFRICA
BORDER OFFICIALS IN GREA
BRITAIN SAY THEY HAVE SEIZED A
RECORD NUMBER OF ITEMS RELATED
TO ENDANGERED ANIMALS THIS YEAR,
ALL PART OF ILLEGAL TRADE VALUED
AT MANY BILLIONS OF DOLLARS.
DAVID WOOD OF ITV NEWS REPORTS
>> Reporter: THEY'RE MEANT TO BE
ROAMING THE ASIAN RAIN FOREST OR
PLAINS OF AFRICA, BUT THIS
COLLECTION OF ENDANGERED ANIMALS
IS HELD AT A STORAGE UNIT IN
HEATHROW, PART OF WHAT BORDE
OFFICIALS HAVE SEIZED OVER THE
LAST YEAR.
>> FROM WEST AND CENTRAL AFRICA,
PRIMARILY TRAFFICKED VIA THE
HUBS AT HEATHROW AND BACK TO
HONG KONG.
WE PICK UP BETWEEN FIVE TO 1
KILOS OF IVORY
THE HEARTBREAKING THING QUIT
CLEARLY IT'S NEW IVORY FRO
RECENTLY SLAUGHTERED ELEPHANTS
>> Reporter: THIS YEAR THE U
BORDER FORCES CONFISCATED MORE
ILLEGAL ITEMS THAN EVER.
SOME 2.5 MILLION INDIVIDUA
PIECES WERE SEIZED IN THE PAST
12 MONTHS.
THAT'S A TENFOLD INCREASE ON THE
PREVIOUS YEAR WHERE JUST 248,000
WERE IMPOUNDED
THE ILLEGAL TRADE IN WILDLIFE IS
THOUGHT TO BE WORTH 12 BILLION
POUNDS EVERY YEAR.
>> IT'S A FRIGHTENING FIGURE
AND THE IMPACT ON THE SPECIE
WHICH ARE BEING TAKEN OUT OF
THESE COUNTRIES IS JUST -- IT'
HUGE
IN OUR LIFETIME WE COULD
GENUINELY SEE THREE OF AFRICA'
ICONIC SPECIES, THE ELEPHANT
THE RHINO AND THE LION DISAPPEAR
FROM OUR PLANET.
>> CHARITIES SAY THAT CAN'T BE
ALLOWED TO HAPPEN.
AND UNLESS WE DO MORE TO PROTECT
ENDANGERED SPECIES, THIS MAY B
THE ONLY PLACE WE CAN SEE THEM
IN THE FEW YOUR.
>>> JOIN US TOMORROW ON AIR AN
ONLINE
THE LESSONS BANKS CAN LEAR
ABOUT SERVING THE POOR
>> WHEN YOU WALK INTO A CHEC
CASHER, YOU SEE THE FEES FOR
EVERY SERVICE POSTED AND YOU
WALK INTO A BANK AND THERE'S N
SIGNAGE AT ALL
>> THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
"PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M JOHN LARSON.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.